So White Hat SEO is generally
seen as making content
that is as good as it possibly can be for
human beings, for your customers.
Black Hat SEO differs
from White Hat SEO and
that it attempts to to please the bots,
right?
So we talked about how common words
are shut away from your content and
all that's left to like the specific rare
words that only appear on your site and
a handful of others.
If you just try to stuff a bunch of
that junk into your blog posts and
they're hardly readable and
it's just gibberish,
that will be detected very quickly and
your search ranking will plummet.
In fact, it would probably be difficult
to find examples of this because it's
detected so
early that you can't even search for
it like these people just think really,
really quick.
JC Penney had an incident a couple years
ago where they hired a contractor who
did a lot of Black Hat stuff and
they ended up for 90 days being in like,
they went from like being the first result
for terms like dresses, which is huge.
That's a really competitive keyword,
to being on like the eighth
page of Google search results because
they were penalized so heavily.
So you wanted definitely be
on the White Hat side, it is
a lot of effort to try to outsmart the the
people who designed the search engines.
One thing I would say is
if you hire a consultant or
a contractor to do SEO work with them,
make it very, very,
very clear that you are not
okay with Black Hat efforts.
Not everybody knows that
this stuff is cut easily and
sometimes what you can see is like
very briefly, you get an uptick, and
it looks like really impressive cuz
you're showing up on the first page.
And then like at the end of the week,
you're just gonna crater and this is not
good for your business for that to happen.
So when you're setting goals, if someone's
promising to get you on the first page,
that's not what you're aiming for.
You're aiming for sustainable and
organic growth that falls completely
on the White Hat side of the picture.